Keeping Track Of Optical Pipeline

Step 0 (all the making_findercharts.pys): Sort all the files into folders based on filter. Find the filter with the largest number of files, pick a random decent file, use DAOStarFinder, and identify the pixel location of the object (stack if need be to identify the object).
Step 1 (trimming_images.py): Make a 512x512 cutout centered around the object's pixel location. This is roughly half the detector area, and depending on where the object is, this field will almost always be visible in all images. Align all images to this cutout and trim the edges. Aligning is done with a 6 parameter affine transformation (from astroalign); we sometimes have to do a basic x-y shift and trim first (from smith_utils).
*Step 1.5 (TBD): There are several images which fail step 1. Investigate to see if they suck or need to be aligned by hand some other way.
Step 2 (trimming_wcs_images.py): Plate solve a trimmed image using astrometry.net. We often need to specify pixel scale and central RA/dec to get this to solve properly.
Step 3 (get_fits_wcs_limits.py & the query on CASJobs): Query the ATLAS-REFCAT2 catalog (https://archive.stsci.edu/hlsp/atlas-refcat2) for nearby reference stars.
Step 4 (ref_star_pixels.py): Turn the RA/DEC location of reference stars into pixel locations, and save these values (plus a pixel location for our target) as a csv. Get rid of anything that's within 10 pixels of the edges, and make sure that our star is listed as a target and not a reference star. Resave the reference star file. This step requires some manual intervention to check the target is identified okay.
Step 5 (first_pass_photometry.py and first_pass_lc.py): Use the fixed pixel locations of all the reference stars and an appropriate aperture size to perform basic aperture photometry; this step does not need to be perfect. From there, calculate instrumental magnitudes per ensemble star per night, calibrate to appropriate reference magnitudes, do differential photometry for our target, and calculate errors based on the S68 (instead of sigma) as in MacDonald 2014.
Step 6 (real_stacked_images): Make stacked images in each filter, based on a combined score of average FWHM and count rate of all stars. Default is to take the top 30% best images, though this may change for some of the objects with fewer observations per band, and take a 3-sigma clipped median. Save a fits file of each.
Step 7 (identify_bad_compstars.py): For each telescope and band, identify which ensemble stars to actually use in the ensemble differential photometry, and which stars to use as comparison stars. This first part is based on the potential of color differences (plotting a 1-1 line of our magnitudes vs. Pan-STARRS or Gaia magnitudes and tossing those > some cutoff away, currently 0.25 mag) and variability (fitting the error plot described above, and excluding those stars which are > than some fractional cutoff away from the fit, currently 50%). Then, refit the errors based on S68 as above. Currently, there is no manual selection of bad stars for the error calculation. The next step is to pick from these good stars and from the images ~5 comparison stars to use for differential photometry, which span the magnitudes of our target in all bands, are relatively isolated in the frame, and relatively close to the target on the 512x512 image. The following are then saved: 1-1 mag plot, error plot, error parameters as a txt file, good vs. bad vs. comp and calculated Gaia and Pan-STARRS magnitudes added to the reference star file, a table of comp star magnitudes and errors 


Step 8: Identify real good comp stars (the few of them) and get more exact positions of these comp stars and the target
Step 9: Do any neighbor subtraction we feel is necessary


Step : redo basic ap phot to get a l.c. -> calibrate using the comp stars -> calculate errors from the model saved
Step : inspect any outliers/inspect files by hand for poor seeing.

